[Music]
it's 25 years since BMW launched its
first all wheel drive model and now one
in every four BMWs sold around the world
is equipped with X Drive and this is the
latest the second-generation x3 and
where among the very first attested on
UK roads
[Applause]
BMW sold more than 600,000 examples of
the first X 3 so the styling changes
reflect a desire not to stray too far
away from the winning formula
competition in this sector is
intensified since the first x3 broke
cover back in 2004 so this new car
really has to up its game to keep pace
let alone overtake rivals from Audi and
Land Rover
the design is characterized by a flowing
wedge-shaped profile and suddenly flared
wheel arches which help to give the car
a more powerful muscular stance the x3
is longer and wider than its predecessor
slotting it neatly between its BMW
siblings that baby x1 and Big Brother x5
although a petrol engine is available in
some markets the UK will be diesel only
and in the case of our SE trim test car
it's of the turbocharged 2-litre common
way of variety
the diesel engine is a little gruff when
you push hard and it packs plenty of
punch and flexibility delivering its
peak torque from just 1750 rpm standard
fit Auto stop-start technology
contributes to the setting of what BMW
describes as a new benchmark for
efficiency in the segment the
performance figures speak for themselves
184 bhp and 380 Newton meters of torque
translating into nought to 62 in 8.5
seconds and a top speed of 130 miles per
hour impressive enough you might think
that match that of 50 miles per gallon
and co2 emissions of just 149 grams per
kilometre and you can see why the new x3
goes straight to the top of the class
the suspension is all new with a 5
linked axle at the rear which combines
with the wider track to achieve a
balance of comfort and agility meanwhile
dynamic damper control allows you to
choose the setting the best suits the
road conditions and your driving style
the new suspension is very well judged
setup is just firm and after award the
committed driver if the x---rays ride is
still smooth and
and the comfort extends to the x3s cabin
which features a driver-focused fascia
which is typical of BMW their functional
design and high quality materials create
an ambience which exudes course and
refinement the simple white on black
dials recall the top-end Swiss sports
watch and our test cars red brown the
vada trim complements them like a fine
leather wristband whilst also adding a
welcome splash of color the increased
dimensions offer more space for various
combinations of passengers and luggage
thanks to a 40/20/40 split rear seat
backrest folded flat and the boot
capacity will expand to a maximum volume
of 1600 liters a figure which is only
trumped by the Freelander 2 in this
sector the bmw x3 xDrive 20d se costs
thirty thousand four hundred and ninety
pounds on the road but be warned if you
raid the options list the price will be
higher as it did with our test car which
comes in at a whisker under 38 grand
[Music]
so the new bmw x3 may not be the most
practical car in its class but it's
impressive blend of performance economy
and versatility coupled with sleek new
looks make it very hard to beat
you
[Music]